hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here in e to
language I took the IELTS again recently
and while I'm not going to reveal make
other scores because I'm going to
challenge them again I can reveal to you
that I got 9 again in speaking and I got
9 in speaking because I used the PPF
method which worked beautifully on test
day I can really tell you that in terms
of when you do part 2 when you have the
1 minute to prepare and 2 minutes to
speak the PPF method method was
excellent it was excellent in that 1
minute preparation time because um that
is a crazy little 1 minute and it goes
so quickly you really don't have time to
write anything down
apart from PPF which I'll show you in a
second and then this speaking itself
while using this method allowed me to
speak for 2 minutes and to not go round
and round in circles to make sure I hit
the task and I told the three very
interesting stories in the past in the
present and one in the future so it
worked well and I just got my result and
I got there 9 so that's good so let's
have a look at IELTS speaking part 2 and
we're going to do some practice of the
PPF method so just to refresh your
memory on test day the examiner will
give you a task card that task card will
be about who knows what it will be about
it could be anything shopping
communication what was mine about mine
was about an advertisement that I had
seen so I had to talk about advertising
right it can get pretty complex so they
give you the task card you have one
minute to prepare and then you have to
speak for two minutes on that task card
there now I've seen some other YouTube
videos that tell you well I can you can
see that some teachers most teachers if
not all teachers have never taken the
IELTS before because the advice they
give you can be completely misguided
there's a very popular ion's teacher on
YouTube whose method
for the one-minute preparation is to
write is to take notes and write down
your story it's so different on test day
that one minute feels like one second or
it just disappears and your anxiety is
usually a lot higher so you're thinking
a lot less clearly you need a very very
simple preparation technique because I
can tell you on test day it's a
different story it's a different feeling
all right so you might get a task card
like this and we're gonna practice on
this one it says talk about a piece of
art you like you should say what the
work of art is when you first saw it
what you know about it and explain why
you like it now I don't know about you
but yeah I like art but I'm certainly I
better do that again that sort of made a
funny word there arts there you go I
don't know about you ah how am I going
to talk about art for two minutes what
whoa crazy stuff let me show you a
technique alright so I want you to tell
three stories not just one because if we
tell one we're gonna go round and round
in circles so we're gonna tell a past
present and future story like this so
we're gonna look at this task card and
we're gonna write down one idea about a
past story one idea about something
that's happened more currently in the
present what you're currently doing
right now maybe you saw some art
recently for example and in some art you
would like to see in the future but it
says a piece of art talk about a piece
of art talk about one piece of art well
as I said I've used this method now and
I got a nine it works I'll also tell you
this which is interesting I spoke to an
IELTS examiner can pause the video if
you like and read this I spoke to an
IELTS examiner who confirmed that you
can speak off-topic slightly it's not a
problem in fact you're not even graded
on speaking on topic it is not a part of
the grading system in IELTS speaking to
speak on topic
in writing you must write on topic in
speaking you can go off-topic
it's not a problem let me show you how
your graded here whoops
so you're granted just very quickly
you're graded on fluency and coherence
so that's that's how smoothly is big how
will you structure your story or stories
lexical resource means vocabulary
grammatical range and accuracy means
grammar and pronunciation is
pronunciation there's nothing in here
about topic and this is what the IELTS
used to grade you and I did it and I got
nine so it works let me tell you that
but I don't have three stories about art
well this is where the one-minute
preparation time is important because
you need to make up the three stories
based loosely on past experiences let me
give you an example so when I look at
this what my mind says is talk about a
piece of art you like okay that's fine
now it doesn't need to be a painting or
it doesn't need to be you know the Mona
Lisa or something like that it can be
something different for me I remember a
picture book when I was a child that had
these beautiful pictures of it was like
it it was like a mythology picture book
mythology I had all these amazing
pictures in it so I'm gonna tell a story
about that so what the work of art is
was a picture book from my childhood
when you first saw it well when I was a
child what you know about it well it was
about mythology it was about Norwegian
mythology of Norse mythology with like
Loki and Thor stuff like this was pretty
cool
explain why you like it well when I was
a child was very captivating blah blah
blah
lucky I've got three stories because if
I just told this story I finish in about
thirty seconds but using this method I
can to spend 30 seconds here forty
seconds that's fine because then I move
to the present at the moment well I'm
sort of interested in fashion at the
moment and in fact on Sunday I'm
thinking about going to see a fashion
show which by
where fashion can be considered art so
what the work of art is well I'm going
to see a fashion show when you first saw
it well I'm going to see it this weekend
actually what you know about it
blah blah blah and explain why you like
it blah blah blah
so I can spend about 40 seconds here so
let's say I spend 40 seconds here and I
spend about 40 seconds here and if I
spend 40 seconds here well that brings
me up to the two minutes doesn't it so
that's cool and I've talked three
interesting stories so in the future I
would like to go and see the Mona Lisa I
believe that the Mona Lisa is housed in
Italy if I'm not mistaken that would
certainly be an interesting country to
visit I'd like to see that art because
la blah blah blah blah anyway this is
what one minute feels like it just on
test day 58 57 and your mind is kind of
I don't know because it's a bit of a
scary situation it's very hard to think
and you can't come up with a perfect
story for each of these so you have to
sort of bend the rules a little bit you
have to make that task art and work for
you that's why I came up with these
three stories what about a picture book
one about fashion and one about Mona
Lisa because I don't have three exact
stories about art in fact I'm not an
artist
I'm haven't studied art blah blah blah
anyway now I want you to do it okay so
I'm gonna give you one minute to prepare
I want you to think of three separate
stories based on this task card your
time starts now
you
okay now you can begin your stories or
your that's what the examiner says to
you now how did that one minute feel you
probably noticed that there's really
very little time you certainly can't
take extensive notes you can really it's
enough time to sort of think write down
three things take a deep breath because
now you're about to tell your stories
for two minutes so let's do that
whoa before we do we need an
introductory sentence in fact so this is
what I said on test day I said I looked
at the examiner and I said about the
advertising remember mine was bad at
advertising I said okay so I would like
to tell you three stories about
advertising first when I was a child
bla bla bla bla bla bla that's how I
started so you might want to say so I
would like to tell you about three
pieces of art that I like let's do it
you have two minutes to tell you three
stories about art starting now
[Music]
okay I'm just reading some of the
comments on YouTube live here very
interesting how did you go did that make
it easier telling the three stories did
you have three stories
I mean maybe your 3 stories went
perfectly related to arts maybe like me
I spoke about it a book that I saw when
I was a child that had beautiful peaches
it's still art fashion still art and in
the future I'd like to see a painting by
whoever painted the Mona Lisa
Michelangelo Leonardo
ah I can't really it doesn't really
matter you don't have to have completely
relevant stories just needs to be
loosely based on that task card telling
three stories makes it way easier let's
do another practice because this is what
you need to do on test day so look at
this task card here describe a piece of
advice you recently received you should
say when you receive the advice who gave
you the advice what the advice was and
explain how you felt about the advice
now I can tell you again on test day
when you're nervous and the examiner
gives you that card and you have one
minute to prepare your brains probably
gonna stop and you're not going to be
able to just write down the story like
some teachers tell you to do is that's
not what happens psychologically
psychologically you'll probably be able
to think ok ok Pastore Pastore some
advice and some advice some advice ok
yes I remember my friend told me this
recently recent advice recent advice
recent advice Oh yep yep yep yep
and then future advice what would what
would I like somebody to tell me um
maybe ok write that down right that's
about it and then you sort of take a
deep breath and the minute is over and
you have to start speaking but that's
cool because you've got those three
stories in front of you and that's fine
let me show you what my advice my three
pieces of advice are so in the past a
friend told me not to be a flake which I
thought was a really interesting piece
of advice to basically
- if I'm going to pursue something then
pursue it deeply and properly don't just
do something superficially so I'm gonna
talk about that relating to this task
card that will take me about 40 seconds
now present recently I've just been
receiving lots of advice on Facebook
about how to improve eetu language calm
that's great advice blah blah blah might
spend about 40 seconds on that one and
then the future in the future what
somewhat sort of advice would I like to
receive
okay maybe advice about how to raise
children in case that ever happens
because I have no idea how to do that so
I can relate that to the task card now
of course it says describe a piece of
advice you recently received ER in the
past but again that does not matter you
can manipulate this to tell three
stories so let's do this I want you to
prepare you have one minute start now
okay you can now begin talking about
advice for two minutes
cool again
I just saw another question on YouTube
live saying how can we talk about the
future when it talks about the past
again please watch the beginning of this
video
not only have I confirmed this with
IELTS examiner's but I've done this
twice now and got nines both times and I
use this method so it does work there is
there is no you do not get graded on
speaking on topic this task card is
there just to guide you of course you
can't just memorize something completely
different and talk about that because
you will lose marks for vocabulary but
you can tell the three stories it's
really not a problem
okay it's up to you if you want to just
tell one story go round and round in
circles fine if you want to get a high
score I highly recommend this method all
right well done I hope that helps let's
do one more or okay one more so this
time describe a trip that you went on
that didn't go as planned
whoa that's tough you should say where
you were going how you were traveling
the people you were with what happened
and explain what you would do
differently all right all right all
right now I've got one minute to prepare
what am I gonna talk about I'm gonna
talk about in the past I took a road
trip with my friends now it didn't go as
planned it did go as planned but I'm
just going to make up a story that we
got lost okay because I don't have to
tell the truth here I'm telling stories
and that's very different to telling the
truth okay recently recently recently a
trip that didn't go as planned okay so I
was going to my brother's house I was
traveling on my scooter I was by myself
and I got pulled over by the police and
I got a fine so in the future I would
not go as fast as I was going okay cool
I've got a great present story the
future a work trip okay next week I'm
going on a work trip I'm gonna travel on
the airplane I'm gonna be by myself
hopefully nothing will go wrong because
I'm gonna plan it very carefully
and again I'm just gonna plan it well
okay so I'm gonna manipulate this task
card to fit my needs to tell three
excellent stories cool your turn to
prepare for this particular task card
starts now
okay
whoops say you can begin speaking now
you
cool how was that did it help
did you speak for two minutes tell three
stories I should just tell you something
else here is you may not get to your
future story you may not make it to the
Future story but past and present is
fine when I did mine I told one sentence
about a future story about future
advertising something I said something
like in the future I would like to see
more advertising done digitally
something like that and then the
examiner said okay you can stop because
a minute this was up but at least
constant in future or graded on B in
grammar not topic now I'm just looking
at the chat here and I see that Dharma
SH when preparing for this broke down
three things okay about the trip that
didn't go as planned
Daanish wrote down Goa Capote ara and
Mount Abu so three places that's it
and that's really all you get time to do
in this preparation time that one minute
you'll write down three things that's it
and then because it'll take you like 30
seconds to wrap your head around what's
going on you write down the three things
the three places you take a deep breath
you look up the examiner says okay you
okay I would like to tell you about
three travels or three journeys that I
went on that didn't go as planned
firstly I would like to tell you about
Goa where I went three years ago
bla bla bla okay cool cool so why is 9
why IELTS no no at least that's what we
want to head towards even if you don't
make it that far that's fine what are
the four things that you're graded on
fluency structure how well you structure
your story vocabulary the words you use
grammar the rules you use pronunciation
how clearly you speak nothing about
topic here and structure refers to
coherence in terms of firstly I would
like to talk about this bla bla bla then
this happened lastly this happened so
that's what coherence or structure means
they're cool guys if you need help with
your IELTS in any way please check out a
two language comm will certainly help
well one thing that we're doing very
soon starting not next week the week
after if you're watching this on youtube
you can just check the website we're
going to run intensive writing and
reading online courses the idea is this
you'll sign up to e to languages budget
package which is the cheapest one the
least expensive one you'll get full
access to the course but you will also
get a downloadable PDF booklets right
because in the exam you need to use a
pen and paper and it's very different to
typing so you need to get familiar with
writing and writing and reading of the
hardest what's going to happen is
there's going to be live classes every
night Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
Friday we're going to run 5 academic
writing task 1 classes 1 every night
we're gonna run 5 writing task 2 classes
for the advantages/disadvantages
problem/solution opinion discussion etc
all the 5 essay prompts and we'll do
general writing as well the 3 lettuce
plus we'll do reading we're going to
look at all the reading question types
all you need to do is bring your PDF sit
down at the computer turn on your
computer I'll teach the classes I'll
teach you how to write the essays I'll
teach you how to do the reading you sit
there with your PDF and do it this is
going to be a cool way to learn in a
very fast and effective way to learn so
if you're interested in that do sign up
as a free user so you'll be notified
when we're doing these live classes ok I
hope that sounds good right now I might
just spend a few minutes err answering
some questions if you have any questions
please put them into the chat here's a
good one
what should I do when we get a give a
surprise question
for part two for example a dangerous
situation situation when you have when
you have been helped by someone
great question all right there is a very
good chance on test day that the
examiner will give you a task card and
you just simply won't have any stories
for it for example talk about a
dangerous City a situation when somebody
helped you out I don't know I don't have
any stories like that not that I can
think of however I can think of a story
when I helped somebody out so I'm gonna
change it like that and I'll just tell
the examiner I'll say I'm gonna tell you
three stories about not when I was in
danger but when I helped somebody else
in danger that's fine remember topic is
loosely based on the topic is no problem
and I once I saw a car crash and I
helped these two people out of the car
it was scary blah blah blah and I can
begin talking and the other thing is you
can just make up these stories okay may
not have happened to you may have
happened to your brother or your friend
you take that story make it your own
remember you're not there to tell the
truth you're there to tell stories
you're there to use your language good
question
any other questions any other questions
let me check in the webinar here Oh what
time in the live classes that's a good
question they're going to be in the
evenings Melbourne Sydney time so in
India around 2 p.m.
Middle East around 10 a.m. but just
check the website to find out which date
to the reliant classes run we're gonna
start on the sign up as a free user I'll
let you know they're gonna be good okay
yeah well here's here's the question of
the day my problem is that I just don't
have any ideas when I want to talk what
should I do
you need to practice you apt it sounds
like a simple thing to sit there and
just tell a story for two minutes it's
not it requires you to practice this and
requires you to practice a range of
different topics as well so yeah cool
all right guys I might leave it there
thanks very much for coming hope that
was helpful
good luck on your test day I hope you
nail it in a high score and never have
to do it again that's the plan
see you soon
you